documentation/docs/backup.md, before:

# :material-backup-restore: Backup System

Get5 ships with a backup system built on top of
CS:GO's [built-in round restore system](https://totalcsgo.com/command/mpbackuprestoreloadfile), which can be used to
either replay a round using the [`!stop`](../commands/#stop) command, or to simply restore an entire match's state on
any server using the [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup) command.

As Get5's backup system sits on top of CS:GO's, it contains everything a normal CS:GO round backup would, but also
the entire [match configuration](../match_schema) and the match series score for already-played maps.

The backup system can be enabled or disabled
with [`get5_backup_system_enabled`](../configuration/#get5_backup_system_enabled).

### How does it work? {: #how-to }

Every time a round starts, CS:GO automatically writes a round backup file into the root of the `csgo` directory based on
the value of `mp_backup_round_file`. The default value for this is `backup`. Get5 reads this file and copies it into its
own file called `get5_backup_match%s_map%d_round%d.cfg`, where the arguments are `matchid`, `mapnumber`
and `roundnumber`, respectively. A special backup called `get5_backup_match%s_map%d_prelive.cfg` is created and should
be used if you want to restore to the beginning of the map, before the knife round.

### Example

When in a match, you can call [`get5_listbackups`](../commands/#get5_listbackups) to view all backups for the current
match. Note that all rounds and map numbers start at 0.

They print in the format `filepath date time team1 team2 map team1_score team2_score`.

```
> get5_listbackups
get5_backup_match1844_map0_prelive.cfg 2022-07-26 18:51:25 "Team A" "Team B"
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round30.cfg 2022-07-26 19:13:41 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 28
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round4.cfg 2022-07-26 18:55:01 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 2
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round10.cfg 2022-07-26 18:59:25 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 8
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round23.cfg 2022-07-26 19:08:13 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 21
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round12.cfg 2022-07-26 19:00:26 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 10
get5_backup_match1844_map0_round17.cfg 2022-07-26 19:03:39 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 15
...
```

!!! example

    To load at the beginning of round 13 of the first map of match ID 1844,
    run [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup):

    `get5_loadbackup get5_backup_match1844_map0_round12.cfg`.

After loading a backup, the game state is restored and the game is [paused](../pausing/#backup). Both teams
must [`!unpause`](../commands/#unpause) to continue.

### Consumed pauses in backups {: #pauses }

When restoring from a backup, the [consumed pauses](pausing.md) are reset to the state they were in at the beginning
of the round you restore to, but only if the game state is not currently live. This means that using
the [`!stop`](../commands/#stop) command or the [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup) command **for the same
match and map while the game is live** will retain the currently used pauses. If restarting the server or loading the
backup from scratch, the consumed pauses defined in the backup file will be set.

Commit message:

Use get5_server_id to prevent backup file collisions (#881)
Use get5_server_id to prevent backup file collisions
Delete default backup file after get5 backup

documentation/docs/backup.md, after:

# :material-backup-restore: Backup System

Get5 ships with a backup system built on top of
CS:GO's [built-in round restore system](https://totalcsgo.com/command/mpbackuprestoreloadfile), which can be used to
either replay a round using the [`!stop`](../commands/#stop) command, or to simply restore an entire match's state on
any server using the [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup) command.

As Get5's backup system sits on top of CS:GO's, it contains everything a normal CS:GO round backup would, but also
the entire [match configuration](../match_schema) and the match series score for already-played maps.

The backup system can be enabled or disabled
with [`get5_backup_system_enabled`](../configuration/#get5_backup_system_enabled).

### How does it work? {: #how-to }

Every time a round starts, CS:GO automatically writes a round backup file into the root of the `csgo` directory based on
the value of [`mp_backup_round_file`](https://totalcsgo.com/command/mpbackuproundfile), which Get5 will [automatically
adjust to prevent file collisions](../configuration/#get5_server_id). Get5 reads this file, copies it into its
own file called `get5_backup%d_match%s_map%d_round%d.cfg`, where the arguments
are [`get5_server_id`](..configuration/#get5_server_id), `matchid`, `mapnumber` and `roundnumber`, respectively, and
then deletes the original backup file. A special backup
called `get5_backup%d_match%s_map%d_prelive.cfg` is created and should be used if you want to restore to the beginning
of the map, before the knife round.

### Example

When in a match, you can call [`get5_listbackups`](../commands/#get5_listbackups) to view all backups for the current
match. Note that all rounds and map numbers start at 0.

They print in the format `filepath timestamp team1 team2 map team1_score team2_score`.

```
> get5_listbackups
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_prelive.cfg 2022-07-26 18:51:25 "Team A" "Team B"
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round30.cfg 2022-07-26 19:13:41 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 28
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round4.cfg 2022-07-26 18:55:01 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 2
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round10.cfg 2022-07-26 18:59:25 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 8
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round23.cfg 2022-07-26 19:08:13 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 21
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round12.cfg 2022-07-26 19:00:26 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 10
get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round17.cfg 2022-07-26 19:03:39 "Team A" "Team B" de_dust2 2 15
...
```

!!! example "Loading a backup"

    To load at the beginning of round 13 of the first map of match ID 1844 from a backup created on a
    [server with ID 4](../configuration/#get5_server_id), run [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup):

    `get5_loadbackup get5_backup4_match1844_map0_round12.cfg`

After loading a backup, the game state is restored and the game is [paused](../pausing/#backup). Both teams
must [`!unpause`](../commands/#unpause) to continue.

### Consumed pauses in backups {: #pauses }

When restoring from a backup, the [consumed pauses](pausing.md) are reset to the state they were in at the beginning
of the round you restore to, but only if the game state is not currently live. This means that using
the [`!stop`](../commands/#stop) command or the [`get5_loadbackup`](../commands/#get5_loadbackup) command **for the same
match and map while the game is live** will retain the currently used pauses. If restarting the server or loading the
backup from scratch, the consumed pauses defined in the backup file will be set.
