documentation/docs/developer_api.md, before:

# API for developers

Get5 can be interacted with in several ways. At a glance:

1) You can write another SourceMod plugin that uses
   the [Get5 natives and forwards](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/scripting/include/get5.inc). This is
   exactly what the [get5_apistats](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/scripting/get5_apistats.sp)
   and [get5_mysqlstats](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/get5_mysqlstats.sp) plugins do. Please use these as
   a general guide/starting point, don't fork this repository to make changes to these plugins alone, but use these as a
   template and create a new repository for your plugin!

2) You can read [event logs](./event_logs.md) from a file on disk (set
   by [`get5_event_log_format`](./get5_configuration.md#file-name-formatting)), through a RCON connection to the server
   console since they are output there, or through another SourceMod plugin (see #1).

3) You can read the [stats](./stats_system.md) get5 collects from a file on disk (set
   by [`get5_stats_path_format`](./get5_configuration.md#file-name-formatting)), or through another SourceMod plugin (
   see #1).

4) You can execute the `get5_loadmatch` command or `get5_loadmatch_url` commands via another plugin or via a RCON
   connection to begin matches. Of course, you could execute any get5 command you want as well.

## Status Schema

The following is the `get_status` response's schema.

### Static

- `plugin_version`: Get5's version number.
- `commit`: Only here if `COMMIT_STRING` is defined (probably not your case).
- `gamestate`: A number representing the game's state.
    - **0**: No setup has taken place.
    - **1**: Warmup, waiting for the veto.
    - **2**: Warmup, doing the veto.
    - **3**: Setup done, waiting for players to ready up.
    - **4**: In the knife round.
    - **5**: Waiting for a !stay or !swap command after the knife.
    - **6**: In the lo3 process.
    - **7**: The match is live.
    - **8**: Postgame screen + waiting for GOTV to finish broadcast.
- `paused`: Is the match paused?
- `gamestate_string`:  human-readable gamestate which is a translation of `gamestate`.
    - `"none"`
    - `"waiting for map veto"`
    - `"map veto"`
    - `"warmup"`
    - `"knife round"`
    - `"waiting for knife round decision"`
    - `"going live"`
    - `"live"`
    - `"postgame"`

#### Additional Parts

*If the current game state is not "none"*:

- `matchid`: The current match's id. You can set it in match configs, with the property which has the same name.
- `loaded_config_file`: The name of the loaded config file. If you used `get5_loadmatch <file>`, it's this file's name.
  If you used `get5_loadmatch_url`, the pattern of the file is `remote_config%d.json`, where `%d` is the server's id,
  which you can set with `get5_server_id`.
- `map_number`: The current map number in the series.
- `team1` and `team2`: Two JSON objects which share the same properties.
    - `name`: Name of the team.
    - `series_score`: The score in the series.
    - `ready`: Boolean indicating if the team is ready.
    - `side`: The side on which the team is. Can be `"CT"`, `"T"`, or `"none"`.
    - `connected_clients`: The number of human clients connected on the team.
    - `current_map_score`: The team's score on the current map.

*If the current game state is past the veto stage*

- `maps`: A JSON Object which contains one property per map.
    - Key: `"map%d"` where `%d` is the map index in the array.
    - Value: The name of the map (taken from the [match config](./match_configuration.md)).

Commit message:

Fix translation grammer/typos Fix suicide logic Added more forwards/events Add fail-safe to bomb time remaining Remove unused player_team event hook Fix spelling mistake in Command_Available Remove legacy get5_web_avaliable alias Remove get5_mysql_force_matchid Added get5_auto_ready_active_players to debug var output Removed MySQL-related comments Removed local instance variable copies of g_MatchID from apistats and mysqlstats Made matchID support strings in all cases and default to an empty string instead of "matchid" Increase JSON buffer size Use SDKHook for utility damage Add .idea to gitignore Convert event and forward system to methodmap objects Auto-join forced team when connecting Rename all ConVars to suffix Cvar Add team_say to client say event Add missing path/file argument to backup load More logdebugs for testing Add Cvar to not cap damage report at 100 Add utility function for m_totalRoundsPlayed Add g_MapNumber variable as the function for map number is incorrect after a map is decided Update sm-json Add more cvars to debug list Updated gamestate command info Add swagger-ui-tag to render event objects in OpenAPI Convert team and side integers to strings in JSON Add get5_print_damage_excess to docs Remove default values for Pause function

documentation/docs/developer_api.md, after:

# API for developers

Get5 can be interacted with in several ways. At a glance:

1) You can write another SourceMod plugin that uses
   the [Get5 natives and forwards](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/scripting/include/get5.inc). This is
   exactly what the [get5_apistats](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/scripting/get5_apistats.sp)
   and [get5_mysqlstats](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/get5_mysqlstats.sp) plugins do. Please use these as
   a general guide/starting point, don't fork this repository to make changes to these plugins alone, but use these as a
   template and create a new repository for your plugin!

2) You can read [event logs](./event_logs.md) from a file on disk (set
   by [`get5_event_log_format`](./get5_configuration.md#file-name-formatting)), through a RCON connection to the server
   console since they are output there, or through another SourceMod plugin (see #1).

3) You can read the [stats](./stats_system.md) get5 collects from a file on disk (set
   by [`get5_stats_path_format`](./get5_configuration.md#file-name-formatting)), or through another SourceMod plugin (
   see #1).

4) You can execute the `get5_loadmatch` command or `get5_loadmatch_url` commands via another plugin or via a RCON
   connection to begin matches. Of course, you could execute any get5 command you want as well.

## Status Schema

The following is the `get_status` response's schema.

### Static

- `plugin_version`: Get5's version number.
- `commit`: Only here if `COMMIT_STRING` is defined (probably not your case).
- `gamestate`: A number representing the game's state.
    - **0**: No setup has taken place.
    - **1**: Warmup, waiting for the veto.
    - **2**: Warmup, doing the veto.
    - **3**: Setup done, waiting for players to ready up.
    - **4**: In the knife round.
    - **5**: Waiting for a !stay or !swap command after the knife.
    - **6**: Countdown to live.
    - **7**: The match is live.
    - **8**: Postgame screen + waiting for GOTV to finish broadcast.
- `paused`: Is the match paused?
- `gamestate_string`: Human-readable gamestate which is a translation of `gamestate`.
    - `"none"`
    - `"waiting for map veto"`
    - `"map veto"`
    - `"warmup"`
    - `"knife round"`
    - `"waiting for knife round decision"`
    - `"going live"`
    - `"live"`
    - `"postgame"`

#### Additional Parts

*If the current game state is not "none"*:

- `matchid`: The current match's id. You can set it in match configs, with the property which has the same name.
- `loaded_config_file`: The name of the loaded config file. If you used `get5_loadmatch <file>`, it's this file's name.
  If you used `get5_loadmatch_url`, the pattern of the file is `remote_config%d.json`, where `%d` is the server's id,
  which you can set with `get5_server_id`.
- `map_number`: The current map number in the series.
- `round_number`: The round number, starting at 0. -1 if the game is not live.
- `round_time`: The number of milliseconds elapsed since the current round started.
- `team1` and `team2`: Two JSON objects which share the same properties.
    - `name`: Name of the team.
    - `series_score`: The score in the series.
    - `ready`: Boolean indicating if the team is ready.
    - `side`: The side on which the team is. Can be `"CT"`, `"T"`, or `"none"`.
    - `connected_clients`: The number of human clients connected on the team.
    - `current_map_score`: The team's score on the current map.

*If the current game state is past the veto stage*

- `maps`: A JSON Object which contains one property per map.
    - Key: `"map%d"` where `%d` is the map index in the array.
    - Value: The name of the map (taken from the [match config](./match_configuration.md)).
