documentation/docs/get5_configuration.md, before:

# Get5 Configuration

This config is auto-generated on first plugin run, then auto-executed on each plugin start. The file is located
at `cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`. You can either set these in the aforementioned file, or in the `cvars` section of a match
config. As mentioned in the [match schema](../match_schema#optional-values), that section will override all other
settings. This section will be broken up into various sub-sections which explains each configuration value.

## Pausing

- `get5_max_pauses`: Maximum number of pauses a team can use, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_max_pause_time`: Maximum number of time the game can spend paused by a team, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_reset_pauses_each_half`: Whether pause limits are reset each halftime period (default 1).
- `get5_fixed_pause_time`: If non-zero, the fixed length all pauses will be. Adjusting this to non-zero this will use
  the in-game timeout counter.
- `get5_pausing_enabled`: Whether the `!pause` command is enabled to clients or not.
- `get5_allow_technical_pause`: Whether technical pauses (`!tech` command) are enabled (default 1).
- `get5_max_tech_pauses`: Number of technical pauses a team is allowed to have, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_tech_pause_time`: If non-zero, number of seconds before any team can call unpause without confirmation.
  0=unlimited and both teams must confirm.
- `get5_pause_on_veto`: Pauses/Freezes players during the veto phase.

## File Name Formatting

*Note: for these, setting the cvar to an empty string ("") will disable the file writing entirely.*

- `get5_time_format`: Time format string (default `%Y-%m-%d_%H`), only affects if a {TIME} tag is used in other
  file-name formatting cvars.
- `get5_demo_name_format`: Format to name demo files in (default `{MATCHID}_map{MAPNUMBER}_{MAPNAME}`).
- `get5_event_log_format`: Format to write get5 event logs to (default `logs/get5_match{MATCHID}.log`).
- `get5_stats_path_format`: Path where stats are output at each map end if it is set.
  Default `get5_matchstats_{MATCHID}.cfg`

### Substitution Variables

Valid substitutions into the above file name formatting cvars (when surrounded by {}):

- `TIME`
- `MAPNAME`
- `MAPNUMBER`
- `MATCHID`
- `TEAM1`
- `TEAM2`
- `MATCHTITLE`

#### Colour Substitution Variables

This project also includes substitution variables for colour in text chat (when surrounded by {}):

- `{NORMAL}`
- `{DARK_RED}`
- `{PINK}`
- `{GREEN}`
- `{YELLOW}`
- `{LIGHT_GREEN}`
- `{LIGHT_RED}`
- `{GRAY}`
- `{ORANGE}`
- `{LIGHT_BLUE}`
- `{DARK_BLUE}`
- `{PURPLE}`

## Match Management Timers

- `get5_time_to_start`: Time (in seconds) teams have to ready up before forfeiting the match, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_time_to_make_knife_decision`: Time (in seconds) a team has to make a !stay/!swap decision after winning knife
  round, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_veto_countdown`: Time (in seconds) to countdown before veto process commences, default 5 seconds.
- `get5_end_match_on_empty_server`: Whether the match is ended with no winner if all players leave (note: this will
  happen even if all players disconnect even in warmup with the intention to reconnect!).
- `get5_veto_confirmation_time`: Time (in seconds) from presenting a veto menu to a selection being made, during which a
  confirmation will be required, 0 to disable, default 2.0 seconds.

## Backup System

- `get5_backup_system_enabled`: Whether the get5 backup system is enabled, default is 1.
- `get5_last_backup_file`: Last match backup file get5 wrote in the current series, this is automatically updated by
  get5 each time a backup file is written.
- `get5_max_backup_age`: Number of seconds before a get5 backup file is automatically deleted, 0 to disable, default is
  160000 seconds.

## Miscellaneous

### Configs

- `get5_live_cfg`: Config file executed when the game goes live, default is `get5/live.cfg`.
- `get5_autoload_config`: A config file to autoload on map starts if no match is loaded, directory is relative to
  the `csgo/` directory.
- `get5_warmup_cfg`: Config file executed in warmup periods, default is `get5/warmup.cfg`.

### Server Setup

*These options will generally not be directly presented to clients, but will modify how Get5 interacts on the game
server.*

- `get5_server_id`: Integer that identifies your server. This is used in temp files to prevent collisions. Default is 0.
- `get5_kick_immunity`: Whether or not admins with the changemap flag will be immune to kicks
  from `get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`. Set to 0 to disable, default is 1.
- `get5_stop_command_enabled`: Whether the `!stop` command is enabled, default is 1.
- `get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`: Whether to kick all clients if no match is loaded. Default 0.
- `get5_display_gotv_veto`: Whether to wait for map vetos to be printed to GOTV before changing map, default is 0.
- `get5_check_auths`: Whether the steamids from a "players" section are used to force players onto teams, and will kick
  users if they are not in the auth list (default 1).

### Match Setup

*These options will generally be represented by changes to the clients.*

- `get5_ready_team_tag`: Adds `[READY] [NOT READY]` Tags before Team Names, and removes clan tags from users. 0 to
  disable it, default is 1.
- `get5_live_countdown_time`: Number of seconds used to count down when a match is going live, default 10 seconds.
- `get5_auto_ready_active_players`: Whether to automatically mark players as ready if they kill anyone in the warmup or
  veto phase. Default is 0.
- `get5_set_client_clan_tags`: Whether to set client clan tags to player ready status. Default is 1.
- `get5_print_damage`: Whether to print damage reports on round ends, default is 0.
- `get5_damageprint_format`: Formatting of damage reports in the text chat. defaults
  to `- [{KILL_TO}] ({DMG_TO} in {HITS_TO}) to [{KILL_FROM}] ({DMG_FROM} in {HITS_FROM}) from {NAME} ({HEALTH} HP)`.
- `get5_message_prefix`: The tag applied before plugin messages, default is `Get5`.

Commit message:

Fix translation grammer/typos Fix suicide logic Added more forwards/events Add fail-safe to bomb time remaining Remove unused player_team event hook Fix spelling mistake in Command_Available Remove legacy get5_web_avaliable alias Remove get5_mysql_force_matchid Added get5_auto_ready_active_players to debug var output Removed MySQL-related comments Removed local instance variable copies of g_MatchID from apistats and mysqlstats Made matchID support strings in all cases and default to an empty string instead of "matchid" Increase JSON buffer size Use SDKHook for utility damage Add .idea to gitignore Convert event and forward system to methodmap objects Auto-join forced team when connecting Rename all ConVars to suffix Cvar Add team_say to client say event Add missing path/file argument to backup load More logdebugs for testing Add Cvar to not cap damage report at 100 Add utility function for m_totalRoundsPlayed Add g_MapNumber variable as the function for map number is incorrect after a map is decided Update sm-json Add more cvars to debug list Updated gamestate command info Add swagger-ui-tag to render event objects in OpenAPI Convert team and side integers to strings in JSON Add get5_print_damage_excess to docs Remove default values for Pause function

documentation/docs/get5_configuration.md, after:

# Get5 Configuration

This config is auto-generated on first plugin run, then auto-executed on each plugin start. The file is located
at `cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`. You can either set these in the aforementioned file, or in the `cvars` section of a match
config. As mentioned in the [match schema](../match_schema#optional-values), that section will override all other
settings. This section will be broken up into various sub-sections which explains each configuration value.

## Pausing

- `get5_max_pauses`: Maximum number of pauses a team can use, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_max_pause_time`: Maximum number of time the game can spend paused by a team, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_reset_pauses_each_half`: Whether pause limits are reset each halftime period (default 1).
- `get5_fixed_pause_time`: If non-zero, the fixed length all pauses will be. Adjusting this to non-zero this will use
  the in-game timeout counter.
- `get5_pausing_enabled`: Whether the `!pause` command is enabled to clients or not.
- `get5_allow_technical_pause`: Whether technical pauses (`!tech` command) are enabled (default 1).
- `get5_max_tech_pauses`: Number of technical pauses a team is allowed to have, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_tech_pause_time`: If non-zero, number of seconds before any team can call unpause without confirmation.
  0=unlimited and both teams must confirm.
- `get5_pause_on_veto`: Pauses/Freezes players during the veto phase.

## File Name Formatting

*Note: for these, setting the cvar to an empty string ("") will disable the file writing entirely.*

- `get5_time_format`: Time format string (default `%Y-%m-%d_%H`), only affects if a {TIME} tag is used in other
  file-name formatting cvars.
- `get5_demo_name_format`: Format to name demo files in (default `{MATCHID}_map{MAPNUMBER}_{MAPNAME}`).
- `get5_event_log_format`: Format to write get5 event logs to (default `logs/get5_match{MATCHID}.log`).
- `get5_stats_path_format`: Path where stats are output at each map end if it is set.
  Default `get5_matchstats_{MATCHID}.cfg`

### Substitution Variables

Valid substitutions into the above file name formatting cvars (when surrounded by {}):

- `TIME`
- `MAPNAME`
- `MAPNUMBER`
- `MATCHID`
- `TEAM1`
- `TEAM2`
- `MATCHTITLE`

#### Colour Substitution Variables

This project also includes substitution variables for colour in text chat (when surrounded by {}):

- `{NORMAL}`
- `{DARK_RED}`
- `{PINK}`
- `{GREEN}`
- `{YELLOW}`
- `{LIGHT_GREEN}`
- `{LIGHT_RED}`
- `{GRAY}`
- `{ORANGE}`
- `{LIGHT_BLUE}`
- `{DARK_BLUE}`
- `{PURPLE}`

## Match Management Timers

- `get5_time_to_start`: Time (in seconds) teams have to ready up before forfeiting the match, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_time_to_make_knife_decision`: Time (in seconds) a team has to make a !stay/!swap decision after winning knife
  round, 0=unlimited.
- `get5_veto_countdown`: Time (in seconds) to countdown before veto process commences, default 5 seconds.
- `get5_end_match_on_empty_server`: Whether the match is ended with no winner if all players leave (note: this will
  happen even if all players disconnect even in warmup with the intention to reconnect!).
- `get5_veto_confirmation_time`: Time (in seconds) from presenting a veto menu to a selection being made, during which a
  confirmation will be required, 0 to disable, default 2.0 seconds.

## Backup System

- `get5_backup_system_enabled`: Whether the get5 backup system is enabled, default is 1.
- `get5_last_backup_file`: Last match backup file get5 wrote in the current series, this is automatically updated by
  get5 each time a backup file is written.
- `get5_max_backup_age`: Number of seconds before a get5 backup file is automatically deleted, 0 to disable, default is
  160000 seconds.

## Miscellaneous

### Configs

- `get5_live_cfg`: Config file executed when the game goes live, default is `get5/live.cfg`.
- `get5_autoload_config`: A config file to autoload on map starts if no match is loaded, directory is relative to
  the `csgo/` directory.
- `get5_warmup_cfg`: Config file executed in warmup periods, default is `get5/warmup.cfg`.

### Server Setup

*These options will generally not be directly presented to clients, but will modify how Get5 interacts on the game
server.*

- `get5_server_id`: Integer that identifies your server. This is used in temp files to prevent collisions. Default is 0.
- `get5_kick_immunity`: Whether or not admins with the changemap flag will be immune to kicks
  from `get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`. Set to 0 to disable, default is 1.
- `get5_stop_command_enabled`: Whether the `!stop` command is enabled, default is 1.
- `get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`: Whether to kick all clients if no match is loaded. Default 0.
- `get5_display_gotv_veto`: Whether to wait for map vetos to be printed to GOTV before changing map, default is 0.
- `get5_check_auths`: Whether the steamids from a "players" section are used to force players onto teams, and will kick
  users if they are not in the auth list (default 1).

### Match Setup

*These options will generally be represented by changes to the clients.*

- `get5_ready_team_tag`: Adds `[READY] [NOT READY]` Tags before Team Names, and removes clan tags from users. 0 to
  disable it, default is 1.
- `get5_live_countdown_time`: Number of seconds used to count down when a match is going live, default 10 seconds.
- `get5_auto_ready_active_players`: Whether to automatically mark players as ready if they kill anyone in the warmup or
  veto phase. Default is 0.
- `get5_set_client_clan_tags`: Whether to set client clan tags to player ready status. Default is 1.
- `get5_print_damage`: Whether to print damage reports on round ends. Default is 0.
- `get5_print_damage_excess`: Whether to discard damage that exceeds the remaining health of a player in the chat
  report. Defaults to 0. If enabled, you can inflict more than 100 damage to a player in the damage report.
- `get5_damageprint_format`: Formatting of damage reports in the text chat. Defaults
  to `- [{KILL_TO}] ({DMG_TO} in {HITS_TO}) to [{KILL_FROM}] ({DMG_FROM} in {HITS_FROM}) from {NAME} ({HEALTH} HP)`.
- `get5_message_prefix`: The tag applied before plugin messages, default is `Get5`.
