documentation/docs/getting_started.md, before:

# :material-play: Getting Started

!!! tip "Show me the money!"

    While you can just jump right in, we recommend you read the [configuration](../configuration) and
    [match schema](../match_schema) sections of the documentation to understand what Get5 can do.

## Quick Start

If you want to create a match quickly without modifying anything, you must set two properties:

1. [`get5_check_auths 0`](../configuration/#get5_check_auths)
2. [`get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded 0`](../configuration/#get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded)

Once these are disabled, anyone can join the server and they will not be kicked for not being a part of a match.
Once all players are connected to the server and on correct teams, just
call [`get5_creatematch`](../commands/#get5_creatematch). There is also a simple menu that you can call this command
from by typing [`!get5`](../commands/#get5) in the game chat. Note that you must
be [a server administrator](../installation/#administrators) to do this.

## Scrims

While Get5 is intended for matches (league matches, LAN-matches, cups, etc.), it can be used for everyday
scrims/gathers/whatever as well. If that is your use case, you should do a few things differently. We call "_having a
home team defined and anyone else on the opposing team_" a **scrim**.

### Letting the opposing team in {: #opposing-team }

Get5 can be configured to kick all players from the server if no match is loaded. You should disable this for a scrim
server. To do so, edit [`cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`](../configuration/#main-config) and make sure that
[`get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`](../configuration/#get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded) to `0`.

### Adding your team's Steam IDs {: #home-team }

You **must** edit the [scrim template](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg)
located at `addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg` and add in *your* team's players to the `team1` section by
their Steam IDs (any format works). After doing this, any user who does not belong in `team1` will implicitly be set
to `team2`.

You can list however many players you want. Add all your coaches, analysts, ringers, and such. If someone on your list
ends up being on the other team in a scrim, you can use the [`!ringer`](../commands/#ringer) command to temporarily swap
them (similarly, you can use it to put someone not in the list on your team temporarily).

### Starting the Match

Rather than creating a [match configuration](match_schema.md), you should
use the [`get5_scrim`](../commands/#get5_scrim) command when the server is on the correct map. You can do this via
RCON or as a regular console command if you are [a server administrator](../installation/#administrators).
You could also type [`!scrim`](../commands/#scrim) in chat.

Once you've done this, all that has to happen is teams to [ready up](../commands/#ready) to start the match.

!!! danger "Practice Mode"

    If you have [practicemode](https://github.com/splewis/csgo-practice-mode) on your server as well, you may wish to
    add `sm_practicemode_can_be_started 0` in your [live configuration](../configuration/#phase-configuration-files).

### Changing Scrim Settings

You can (and should) edit
the [scrim template](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg)
at `addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg`. In this you can set any scrim-specific properties in the `cvars`
section. The template defaults to `mp_match_can_clinch 0` (designed for practice) which you should disable if playing a
real match. You may also want to lower `tv_delay` (and maybe `tv_enable` so you can record your scrims).

Commit message:

Doc updates explaining disabling practice mode.
Update templates to reflect changes.

Update autoload description.

Typo fixes.

documentation/docs/getting_started.md, after:

# :material-play: Getting Started

!!! tip "Show me the money!"

    While you can just jump right in, we recommend you read the [configuration](../configuration) and
    [match schema](../match_schema) sections of the documentation to understand what Get5 can do.

## Quick Start

If you want to create a match quickly without modifying anything, you must set two properties:

1. [`get5_check_auths 0`](../configuration/#get5_check_auths)
2. [`get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded 0`](../configuration/#get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded)

Once these are disabled, anyone can join the server and they will not be kicked for not being a part of a match.
Once all players are connected to the server and on correct teams, just
call [`get5_creatematch`](../commands/#get5_creatematch). There is also a simple menu that you can call this command
from by typing [`!get5`](../commands/#get5) in the game chat. Note that you must
be [a server administrator](../installation/#administrators) to do this.

## Scrims

While Get5 is intended for matches (league matches, LAN-matches, cups, etc.), it can be used for everyday
scrims/gathers/whatever as well. If that is your use case, you should do a few things differently. We call "_having a
home team defined and anyone else on the opposing team_" a **scrim**.

### Letting the opposing team in {: #opposing-team }

Get5 can be configured to kick all players from the server if no match is loaded. You should disable this for a scrim
server. To do so, edit [`cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`](../configuration/#main-config) and make sure that
[`get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded`](../configuration/#get5_kick_when_no_match_loaded) to `0`.

### Adding your team's Steam IDs {: #home-team }

You **must** edit the [scrim template](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg)
located at `addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg` and add in *your* team's players to the `team1` section by
their Steam IDs (any format works). After doing this, any user who does not belong in `team1` will implicitly be set
to `team2`.

You can list however many players you want. Add all your coaches, analysts, ringers, and such. If someone on your list
ends up being on the other team in a scrim, you can use the [`!ringer`](../commands/#ringer) command to temporarily swap
them (similarly, you can use it to put someone not in the list on your team temporarily).

### Starting the Match

Rather than creating a [match configuration](match_schema.md), you should
use the [`get5_scrim`](../commands/#get5_scrim) command when the server is on the correct map. You can do this via
RCON or as a regular console command if you are [a server administrator](../installation/#administrators).
You could also type [`!scrim`](../commands/#scrim) in chat.

Once you've done this, all that has to happen is teams to [ready up](../commands/#ready) to start the match.

!!! danger "Practice Mode"

    If you have [practicemode](https://github.com/splewis/csgo-practice-mode) on your server as well, you may wish to
    add `sm_practicemode_can_be_started 0` in the `cvars` section of your [match configuration](../match_schema/#schema).
    This will remove the ability to start practice mode until the match is completed or cancelled.

### Changing Scrim Settings

You can (and should) edit
the [scrim template](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg)
at `addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/scrim_template.cfg`. In this you can set any scrim-specific properties in the `cvars`
section. The template defaults to `mp_match_can_clinch 0` (designed for practice) which you should disable if playing a
real match. You may also want to lower `tv_delay` (and maybe `tv_enable` so you can record your scrims).
