documentation/docs/installation.md, before:

# Download and Installation

## SourceMod & MetaMod

You must have [SourceMod](https://www.sourcemod.net/) downloaded and installed on your server. Please note that Get5
requires SourceMod version 1.10 or higher. Instructions of how to install SourceMod and MetaMod (requirement of
SourceMod) can be found on their website.

[Download MetaMod](https://www.sourcemm.net/downloads.php?branch=stable){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Download SourceMod](https://www.sourcemod.net/downloads.php?branch=stable){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

**Remember to select the correct OS type (Windows/Linux/Mac) for both plugins. This should be the OS of the server.**

## Download Get5

Releases of Get5 can be found in the [Tags](https://github.com/splewis/get5/tags) section of the repo. These versions
are known to be stable, but may be lacking features that are currently in development. If you would like to test new
features, or be on the "bleeding edge", you can also download through the Jenkins instance
found [here](https://ci.splewis.net/job/get5/), or the build artifacts found under each run in GitHub
actions [here](https://github.com/splewis/get5/actions).

## Installation

Once you have downloaded the zip file, extract it into your `csgo/` directory in your game server. If all goes well, you
should have the compiled plugin located at `addons/sourcemod/plugins/get5.smx`. Once the plugin first loads on the
server, you can edit general get5 cvars in the autogenerated `cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`. You should also have 3 config
files: `cfg/get5/warmupcfg`, `cfg/get5/knife.cfg` and `cfg/get5/live.cfg`. These can be edited, but we recommend not
blindly pasting another config in (e.g. ESL, CEVO). Configs that execute warmup commands (`mp_warmup_end`, for
example) **will** cause problems.

### Installing SteamWorks (Optional)

SteamWorks is not required for Get5 to work on your game server, however it is required if you wish to load match
configs remotely. You can download the latest binaries for
SteamWorks [here](https://github.com/KyleSanderson/SteamWorks/releases/). If you require a Windows build of the
extension, that can also be found [here](https://github.com/hexa-core-eu/SteamWorks/releases) instead. After
downloading, unzip the file and merge the `addons` directory to the one in your CS:GO server installation.

### Installing get5_apistats (Optional)

If you want to use the [get5 web panel](https://github.com/splewis/get5-web) (however, this is unsupported, and there
are other tools/webpanels available) to manage matches and display stats, then you should install the `get5_apistats`
plugin in addition to the get5 plugin. In addition to get5.smx in `addons/sourcemod/plugins`, you should have copied
get5_apistats.smx into that directory as well. Both plugins are included in releases/builds, and the apistats plugin
will be in the `disabled` folder.

Note: this requires that you installed the SteamWorks extension from the above step. The command `get5_web_available`
will tell you if this plugin was successfully installed. If not, it will reply with "unknown command".

Congratulations, Get5 is now installed on your server, and you can continue to [Configuration](./match_configuration.md)
.

Commit message:

Update version number to include a commit hash through Actions.
Update build script to build release tags.

Update issue template to remove wiki link.

Update documentation to include links to proper releases to the release/tag on GitHub.

Attempt to break down nightlies and releases into different logic blocks.

Remove unknown try include for manual version.

Add test compile on pull requests.

Add `v` for tagging nightly verisons as well with short sha hash.

documentation/docs/installation.md, after:

# Download and Installation

## SourceMod & MetaMod

You must have [SourceMod](https://www.sourcemod.net/) downloaded and installed on your server. Please note that Get5
requires SourceMod version 1.10 or higher. Instructions of how to install SourceMod and MetaMod (requirement of
SourceMod) can be found on their website.

[Download MetaMod](https://www.sourcemm.net/downloads.php?branch=stable){ .md-button .md-button--primary } [Download SourceMod](https://www.sourcemod.net/downloads.php?branch=stable){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

**Remember to select the correct OS type (Windows/Linux/Mac) for both plugins. This should be the OS of the server.**

## Download Get5

Releases of Get5 can be found in the [Releases](https://github.com/splewis/get5/releases) section of the repo. Anything *not*
marked as "Nightly" in the title are known to be stable, but may be lacking features that are currently in development. 
If you would like to test new features, or be on the "bleeding edge", you can also download any of the latest 
pre-releases found at the same link above that are marked in the title with "Nightly".

## Installation

Once you have downloaded the zip file, extract it into your `csgo/` directory in your game server. If all goes well, you
should have the compiled plugin located at `addons/sourcemod/plugins/get5.smx`. Once the plugin first loads on the
server, you can edit general get5 cvars in the autogenerated `cfg/sourcemod/get5.cfg`. You should also have 3 config
files: `cfg/get5/warmupcfg`, `cfg/get5/knife.cfg` and `cfg/get5/live.cfg`. These can be edited, but we recommend not
blindly pasting another config in (e.g. ESL, CEVO). Configs that execute warmup commands (`mp_warmup_end`, for
example) **will** cause problems.

### Installing SteamWorks (Optional)

SteamWorks is not required for Get5 to work on your game server, however it is required if you wish to load match
configs remotely. You can download the latest binaries for
SteamWorks [here](https://github.com/KyleSanderson/SteamWorks/releases/). If you require a Windows build of the
extension, that can also be found [here](https://github.com/hexa-core-eu/SteamWorks/releases) instead. After
downloading, unzip the file and merge the `addons` directory to the one in your CS:GO server installation.

### Installing get5_apistats (Optional)

If you want to use the [get5 web panel](https://github.com/splewis/get5-web) (however, this is unsupported, and there
are other tools/webpanels available) to manage matches and display stats, then you should install the `get5_apistats`
plugin in addition to the get5 plugin. In addition to get5.smx in `addons/sourcemod/plugins`, you should have copied
get5_apistats.smx into that directory as well. Both plugins are included in releases/builds, and the apistats plugin
will be in the `disabled` folder.

Note: this requires that you installed the SteamWorks extension from the above step. The command `get5_web_available`
will tell you if this plugin was successfully installed. If not, it will reply with "unknown command".

Congratulations, Get5 is now installed on your server, and you can continue to [Configuration](./match_configuration.md)
.
