documentation/docs/match_schema.md, before:

# :material-format-list-text: Match Schema

## What is it?

A match configuration file contains everything that Get5 and your server needs to host a series. This includes locking
players to their correct team and side, setting the map(s) and configuring the game rules.

Two files ship with Get5 that give a general idea of what can be included in a match config. A Valve KeyValue
format can be found [here](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/example_match.cfg), and a JSON
format can be found [here](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/example_match.json). In this
documentation, we'll go through what each value means, but do note that **only the values** `team1` and `team2` are
required to start a match. Reasonable defaults are used for the other values (Bo3 series,
5v5, empty strings for team names, etc.). We recommend using the JSON format whenever possible, as JSON has way
better support in various programming languages than Valve's KeyValue format (which essentially has none).

## The schema {: #schema }

```typescript title="TypeScript interface definition of a match configuration"
type SteamID = string // (8)
type Get5PlayerSet = { [key: SteamID]: string } | [SteamID] // (9)

interface Get5MatchTeam {
    "players": Get5PlayerSet // (24)
    "coaches": Get5PlayerSet // (23)
    "name": string // (16)
    "tag": string // (17)
    "flag": string // (18)
    "logo": string // (19)
    "series_score": number // (26)
    "matchtext": string // (27)
}

interface Get5MatchTeamFromFile {
    "fromfile": string // (28)
}

interface Get5Match {
    "match_title": string // (25)
    "matchid": string // (1)
    "clinch_series": boolean // (32)
    "num_maps": number // (2)
    "players_per_team": number // (3)
    "coaches_per_team": number // (4)
    "min_players_to_ready": number // (5)
    "min_spectators_to_ready": number // (6)
    "skip_veto": boolean // (7),
    "veto_first": "team1" | "team2" | "random" // (11)
    "side_type": "standard" | "always_knife" | "never_knife" // (12)
    "map_sides": ["team1_ct" | "team1_t" | "knife"] // (31)
    "spectators": { // (10)
        "name": string // (29)
        "players": Get5PlayerSet // (30)
    },
    "maplist": [string] // (13)
    "favored_percentage_team1": number // (14)
    "favored_percentage_text": string // (15)
    "team1": Get5MatchTeam | Get5MatchTeamFromFile // (20)
    "team2": Get5MatchTeam | Get5MatchTeamFromFile // (21)
    "cvars": { [key: string]: string } // (22)
}
```

1. _Optional_<br>The ID of the match. This determines the `matchid` parameter in all
   [forwards and events](events_and_forwards.md). If you use the [MySQL extension](../stats_system/#mysql), you
   should leave this field blank (or omit it), as match IDs will be assigned automatically. If you do want to assign
   match IDs from another source, they **must** be integers (in a string) and must increment between
   matches.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
2. _Optional_<br>The number of maps to play in the series.<br><br>**`Default: 3`**
3. _Optional_<br>The number of players per team. You should **never** set this to a value higher than the number of
   players you want to actually play in a game, *excluding* coaches.<br><br>**`Default: 5`**
4. _Optional_<br>The maximum number of [coaches](coaching.md) per team.<br><br>**`Default: 2`**
5. _Optional_<br>The minimum number of players that must be present for the [`!forceready`](../commands/#forceready)
   command to succeed. If not forcing a team ready, **all** players must [`!ready`](../commands/#ready) up
   themselves.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
6. _Optional_<br>The minimum number of spectators that must be [`!ready`](../commands/#ready) for the game to
   begin.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
7. _Optional_<br>Whether to skip the veto phase. When skipping veto, `map_sides` determines sides, and if `map_sides` is
   not set, sides are determined by `side_type`.<br><br>**`Default: false`**
8. A player's :material-steam: Steam ID. This can be in any format, but we recommend a string representation of SteamID
   64, i.e. `"76561197987713664"`.
9. Players are represented each with a mapping of `SteamID -> PlayerName` as a key-value dictionary. The name
   is optional and should be set to an empty string to let players decide their own name. You can also provide a simple
   string array of `SteamID` disable name-locking.
10. _Optional_<br>The spectators to allow into the game. If not defined, spectators cannot join the
    game.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
11. _Optional_<br>The team that vetoes first.<br><br>**`Default: "team1"`**
12. _Optional_<br>The method used to determine sides when vetoing **or** if veto is disabled and `map_sides` are not
    set.<br><br>`standard` means that the team that doesn't pick a map gets the side choice (only if `skip_veto`
    is `false`).<br><br>`always_knife` means that sides are always determined by a knife-round.<br><br>`never_knife`
    means that `team1` always starts on CT.<br><br>This parameter is ignored if `map_sides` is set for all
    maps. `standard` and `always_knife` behave similarly when `skip_veto` is `true`.<br><br>**`Default: "standard"`**
13. _Required_<br>The map pool to pick from, as an array of strings (`["de_dust2", "de_nuke"]` etc.), or if `skip_veto`
    is `true`, the order of maps played (limited by `num_maps`). **This should always be odd-sized if using the in-game
    veto system.**
14. _Optional_<br>Wrapper for the server's `mp_teamprediction_pct`. This determines the chances of `team1`
    winning.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
15. _Optional_<br>Wrapper for the server's `mp_teamprediction_txt`.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
16. _Optional_<br>The team's name. Sets `mp_teamname_1` or `mp_teamname_2`. Printed frequently in chat. If you don't
    define a team name, it will be set to `team_` followed by the name of the captain, i.e. `team_s1mple`.
    <br><br>**`Default: ""`**
17. _Optional_<br>A short version of the team name, used in clan tags in-game (requires
    that [`get5_set_client_clan_tags`](../configuration#get5_set_client_clan_tags) is disabled).
    <br><br>**`Default: ""`**
18. _Optional_<br>The ISO-code to use for the in-game flag of the team. Must be a supported country, i.e. `FR`,`UK`,`SE`
    etc.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
19. _Optional_<br>The team logo (wraps `mp_teamlogo_1` or `mp_teamlogo_2`), which requires to be on a FastDL in order
    for clients to see.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
20. _Required_<br>The data for the first team.
21. _Required_<br>The data for the second team.
22. _Optional_<br>Various commands to execute on the server when loading the match configuration. This can be both
    regular server-commands and any [`Get5 configuration parameter`](configuration.md),
    i.e. `{"hostname": "Match #3123 - Astralis vs. NaVi"}`.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
23. _Optional_<br>Similarly to `players`, this object maps [coaches](coaching.md) using their Steam ID and
    name, locking them to the coach slot unless removed using [`get5_removeplayer`](../commands/#get5_removeplayer).
    Setting a Steam ID as coach takes precedence over being set as a player.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
24. _Required_<br>The players on the team.
25. _Optional_<br>Wrapper of the server's `mp_teammatchstat_txt` cvar, but can use `{MAPNUMBER}` and `{MAXMAPS}` as
    variables that get replaced with their integer values. In a BoX series, you probably don't want to set this since
    Get5 automatically sets `mp_teamscore` cvars for the current series score, and take the place of
    the `mp_teammatchstat` cvars.<br><br>**`Default: "Map {MAPNUMBER} of {MAXMAPS}"`**
26. _Optional_<br>The current score in the series, this can be used to give a team a map advantage or used as a manual
    backup method.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
27. _Optional_<br>Wraps `mp_teammatchstat_1` and `mp_teammatchstat_2`. You probably don't want to set this, in BoX
    series, `mp_teamscore` cvars are automatically set and take the place of the `mp_teammatchstat_x`
    cvars.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
28. Match teams can also be loaded from a separate file, allowing you to easily re-use a match configuration for
    different sets of teams. A `fromfile` value could be `"addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/team_nip.json"`, and is always
    relative to the `csgo` directory. The file should contain a valid `Get5MatchTeam` object. Note that the file you
    point to must be in the same format as the main file, so pointing to a `.cfg` file when the main file is `.json`
    will **not** work.
29. _Optional_<br>The name of the spectator team.<br><br>**`Default: "casters"`**
30. _Optional_<br>The spectator/caster Steam IDs and names.
31. _Optional_<br>Determines the starting sides for each map. If this array is shorter than `num_maps`, `side_type` will
    determine the side-behavior of the remaining maps. Ignored if `skip_veto` is `false`.
    <br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
32. _Optional_<br>If `false`, the entire map list will be played, regardless of score. If `true`, a series will be won
    when the series score for a team exceeds the number of maps divided by two.<br><br>**`Default: true`**

## Examples {: #example }

These examples are identical in the way they would work if loaded.

=== "JSON (recommended)"

    !!! tip "Example only"
        
        `map_sides` would only work with `skip_veto: true`.

    ```json title="addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.json"
    {
      "match_title": "Astralis vs. NaVi",
      "matchid": "3123",
      "clinch_series": true,
      "num_maps": 3,
      "players_per_team": 5,
      "coaches_per_team": 2,
      "min_players_to_ready": 2,
      "min_spectators_to_ready": 0,
      "skip_veto": false,
      "veto_first": "team1",
      "side_type": "standard",
      "spectators": {
        "name": "Blast PRO 2021",
        "players": {
          "76561197987511774": "Anders Blume"
        }
      },
      "maplist": [
        "de_dust2",
        "de_nuke",
        "de_inferno",
        "de_mirage",
        "de_vertigo",
        "de_ancient",
        "de_overpass"
      ],
      "map_sides": [
        "team1_ct",
        "team2_ct",
        "knife"
      ],
      "team1": {
        "fromfile": "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
      },
      "team2": {
        "name": "Astralis",
        "tag": "Astralis",
        "flag": "DK",
        "logo": "astr",
        "players": {
          "76561197990682262": "Xyp9x",
          "76561198010511021": "gla1ve",
          "76561197979669175": "K0nfig",
          "76561198028458803": "BlameF",
          "76561198024248129": "farlig"
        },
        "coaches": {
          "76561197987144812": "Trace"
        }
      },
      "cvars": {
        "hostname": "Get5 Match #3123",
        "mp_friendly_fire": "0",
        "get5_end_match_on_empty_server": "0",
        "get5_stop_command_enabled": "0",
        "sm_practicemode_can_be_started": "0"
      }
    }
    ```
    `fromfile` example:
    ```json title="addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
    {
      "name": "Natus Vincere",
      "tag": "NaVi",
      "flag": "UA",
      "logo": "navi",
      "players": {
        "76561198034202275": "s1mple",
        "76561198044045107": "electronic",
        "76561198246607476": "b1t",
        "76561198121220486": "Perfecto",
        "76561198040577200": "sdy"
      },
      "coaches": {
        "76561198013523865": "B1ad3"
      }
    }
    ```

    And in TypeScript, using the above interface definition file:
    ```typescript title="Typescript JSON example with Node.js"
    const match_schema: Get5Match = {
        "match_title": "Astralis vs. NaVi",
        "matchid": "3123",
        "clinch_series": true,
        "num_maps": 3,
        "players_per_team": 5,
        "coaches_per_team": 2,
        "min_players_to_ready": 2,
        "min_spectators_to_ready": 0,
        "skip_veto": false,
        "veto_first": "team1",
        "side_type": "standard",
        "spectators": {
            "name": "Blast PRO 2021",
            "players": {
                "76561197987511774": "Anders Blume"
            }
        },
        "maplist": ["de_dust2", "de_nuke", "de_inferno", "de_mirage", "de_vertigo", "de_ancient", "de_overpass"],
        "map_sides": ["team1_ct", "team2_ct", "knife"], // Example; would only work with "skip_veto": true
        "team1": {
            "fromfile": "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
        },
        "team2": {
            "name": "Astralis",
            "tag": "Astralis",
            "flag": "DK",
            "logo": "astr",
            "players": {
                "76561197990682262": "Xyp9x",
                "76561198010511021": "gla1ve",
                "76561197979669175": "K0nfig",
                "76561198028458803": "BlameF",
                "76561198024248129": "farlig"
            },
            "coaches": {
                "76561197987144812": "Trace"
            }
        },
        "cvars": {
            "hostname": "Get5 Match #3123",
            "mp_friendly_fire": "0",
            "get5_end_match_on_empty_server": "0",
            "get5_stop_command_enabled": "0",
            "sm_practicemode_can_be_started": "0"
        }
    }
    
    // And the config file could be placed on the server like this:
    const json = JSON.stringify(match_schema);
    fs.writeFileSync('addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.json', json);
    ```

=== "KeyValue"

    !!! warning "All strings, no brakes"

        Note that `false` does not exist in the KeyValue format and that all numerical values are wrapped in quotes. The
        empty strings as values in dictionaries (`maplist` and `map_sides`) are also required.
    
    ```cfg title="addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.cfg"
    "Match"
    {
    	"match_title"               "Astralis vs. NaVi"
    	"matchid"		            "3123"
        "clinch_series"             "1"
    	"num_maps"		            "3"
    	"players_per_team"          "5"
    	"coaches_per_team"          "2"
    	"min_players_to_ready"      "2"
    	"min_spectators_to_ready"   "0"
    	"skip_veto"		            "0"
    	"veto_first"	            "team1"
        "side_type"		            "standard"
    	"spectators"    
    	{
    	    "name" "Blast PRO 2021"
    		"players"
    		{
    			"76561197987511774"	"Anders Blume"
    		}
    	}
    	"maplist"
    	{
    		"de_dust2"		""
    		"de_nuke"		""
    		"de_inferno"	""
    		"de_mirage"		""
    		"de_vertigo"	""
    		"de_ancient"	""
    		"de_overpass"	""
    	}
    	"map_sides"  // Example; would only work with "skip_veto" "1"
    	{
    	    "team1_ct" ""
    	    "team2_ct" ""
    	    "knife"    ""
    	}
    	"team1"
    	{
            "fromfile"  "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.cfg"
    	}
    	"team2"
    	{
    		"name"		"Astralis"
    		"tag"		"Astralis"
    		"flag"		"DK"
    		"logo"		"astr"
    		"players"
    		{
                "76561197990682262" "Xyp9x"
                "76561198010511021" "gla1ve"
                "76561197979669175" "K0nfig"
                "76561198028458803" "BlameF"
                "76561198024248129" "farlig"
    		}
    		"coaches"
    		{
                "76561197987144812" "Trace"
            }
    	}
    	"cvars"
    	{
            "hostname"                       "Get5 Match #3123"
            "mp_friendly_fire"               "0"
            "get5_end_match_on_empty_server" "0"
            "get5_stop_command_enabled"      "0"
            "sm_practicemode_can_be_started" "0"
    	}
    }
    ```
    `fromfile` example:
    ```cfg title="addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.cfg"
    { 
        "name"		"Natus Vincere"
    	"tag"		"NaVi"
    	"flag"		"UA"
    	"logo"		"navi"
    	"players"
    	{
            "76561198034202275" "s1mple"
            "76561198044045107" "electronic"
            "76561198246607476" "b1t"
            "76561198121220486" "Perfecto"
            "76561198040577200" "sdy"
    	}
    	"coaches"
    	{
            "76561198013523865" "B1ad3"
        }
    }
    ```

Commit message:

0.10.2 (#876)
Rename GetTeamAuths to GetTeamPlayers for consistency
Rename GetAuthMatchTeam to GetMatchTeamFromAuth
Rename IsAuthOnTeam to IsAuthOnTeamPlayer
Rename g_TeamAuths to g_TeamPlayers
GetMatchTeamFromAuth should check for spectator, then coach, then player
Properly handle spectator team assignment in CheckClientTeam
RemovePlayerFromTeams should always remove from both coaches and players array
Adjust docs to explain team assignment priority
Allow spectators in scrim template
Elaborate on !ringer targeting
Reset coach array when loading team data
Reset spectator array when loading spectators from json
Merge GetPlayerStat and SetPlayerStat calls
Bump version to 0.10.2

documentation/docs/match_schema.md, after:

# :material-format-list-text: Match Schema

## What is it?

A match configuration file contains everything that Get5 and your server needs to host a series. This includes locking
players to their correct team and side, setting the map(s) and configuring the game rules.

Two files ship with Get5 that give a general idea of what can be included in a match config. A Valve KeyValue
format can be found [here](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/example_match.cfg), and a JSON
format can be found [here](https://github.com/splewis/get5/blob/master/configs/get5/example_match.json). In this
documentation, we'll go through what each value means, but do note that **only the values** `team1` and `team2` are
required to start a match. Reasonable defaults are used for the other values (Bo3 series,
5v5, empty strings for team names, etc.). We recommend using the JSON format whenever possible, as JSON has way
better support in various programming languages than Valve's KeyValue format (which essentially has none).

## The schema {: #schema }

```typescript title="TypeScript interface definition of a match configuration"
type SteamID = string // (8)
type Get5PlayerSet = { [key: SteamID]: string } | [SteamID] // (9)

interface Get5MatchTeam {
    "players": Get5PlayerSet // (24)
    "coaches": Get5PlayerSet // (23)
    "name": string // (16)
    "tag": string // (17)
    "flag": string // (18)
    "logo": string // (19)
    "series_score": number // (26)
    "matchtext": string // (27)
}

interface Get5MatchTeamFromFile {
    "fromfile": string // (28)
}

interface Get5Match {
    "match_title": string // (25)
    "matchid": string // (1)
    "clinch_series": boolean // (32)
    "num_maps": number // (2)
    "players_per_team": number // (3)
    "coaches_per_team": number // (4)
    "min_players_to_ready": number // (5)
    "min_spectators_to_ready": number // (6)
    "skip_veto": boolean // (7),
    "veto_first": "team1" | "team2" | "random" // (11)
    "side_type": "standard" | "always_knife" | "never_knife" // (12)
    "map_sides": ["team1_ct" | "team1_t" | "knife"] // (31)
    "spectators": { // (10)
        "name": string // (29)
        "players": Get5PlayerSet // (30)
    },
    "maplist": [string] // (13)
    "favored_percentage_team1": number // (14)
    "favored_percentage_text": string // (15)
    "team1": Get5MatchTeam | Get5MatchTeamFromFile // (20)
    "team2": Get5MatchTeam | Get5MatchTeamFromFile // (21)
    "cvars": { [key: string]: string } // (22)
}
```

1. _Optional_<br>The ID of the match. This determines the `matchid` parameter in all
   [forwards and events](events_and_forwards.md). If you use the [MySQL extension](../stats_system/#mysql), you
   should leave this field blank (or omit it), as match IDs will be assigned automatically. If you do want to assign
   match IDs from another source, they **must** be integers (in a string) and must increment between
   matches.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
2. _Optional_<br>The number of maps to play in the series.<br><br>**`Default: 3`**
3. _Optional_<br>The number of players per team. You should **never** set this to a value higher than the number of
   players you want to actually play in a game, *excluding* coaches.<br><br>**`Default: 5`**
4. _Optional_<br>The maximum number of [coaches](coaching.md) per team.<br><br>**`Default: 2`**
5. _Optional_<br>The minimum number of players that must be present for the [`!forceready`](../commands/#forceready)
   command to succeed. If not forcing a team ready, **all** players must [`!ready`](../commands/#ready) up
   themselves.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
6. _Optional_<br>The minimum number of spectators that must be [`!ready`](../commands/#ready) for the game to
   begin.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
7. _Optional_<br>Whether to skip the veto phase. When skipping veto, `map_sides` determines sides, and if `map_sides` is
   not set, sides are determined by `side_type`.<br><br>**`Default: false`**
8. A player's :material-steam: Steam ID. This can be in any format, but we recommend a string representation of SteamID
   64, i.e. `"76561197987713664"`.
9. Players are represented each with a mapping of `SteamID -> PlayerName` as a key-value dictionary. The name
   is optional and should be set to an empty string to let players decide their own name. You can also provide a simple
   string array of `SteamID` disable name-locking.
10. _Optional_<br>The spectators to allow into the game. If not defined, spectators cannot join the
    game.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
11. _Optional_<br>The team that vetoes first.<br><br>**`Default: "team1"`**
12. _Optional_<br>The method used to determine sides when vetoing **or** if veto is disabled and `map_sides` are not
    set.<br><br>`standard` means that the team that doesn't pick a map gets the side choice (only if `skip_veto`
    is `false`).<br><br>`always_knife` means that sides are always determined by a knife-round.<br><br>`never_knife`
    means that `team1` always starts on CT.<br><br>This parameter is ignored if `map_sides` is set for all
    maps. `standard` and `always_knife` behave similarly when `skip_veto` is `true`.<br><br>**`Default: "standard"`**
13. _Required_<br>The map pool to pick from, as an array of strings (`["de_dust2", "de_nuke"]` etc.), or if `skip_veto`
    is `true`, the order of maps played (limited by `num_maps`). **This should always be odd-sized if using the in-game
    veto system.**
14. _Optional_<br>Wrapper for the server's `mp_teamprediction_pct`. This determines the chances of `team1`
    winning.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
15. _Optional_<br>Wrapper for the server's `mp_teamprediction_txt`.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
16. _Optional_<br>The team's name. Sets `mp_teamname_1` or `mp_teamname_2`. Printed frequently in chat. If you don't
    define a team name, it will be set to `team_` followed by the name of the captain, i.e. `team_s1mple`.
    <br><br>**`Default: ""`**
17. _Optional_<br>A short version of the team name, used in clan tags in-game (requires
    that [`get5_set_client_clan_tags`](../configuration#get5_set_client_clan_tags) is disabled).
    <br><br>**`Default: ""`**
18. _Optional_<br>The ISO-code to use for the in-game flag of the team. Must be a supported country, i.e. `FR`,`UK`,`SE`
    etc.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
19. _Optional_<br>The team logo (wraps `mp_teamlogo_1` or `mp_teamlogo_2`), which requires to be on a FastDL in order
    for clients to see.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
20. _Required_<br>The data for the first team.
21. _Required_<br>The data for the second team.
22. _Optional_<br>Various commands to execute on the server when loading the match configuration. This can be both
    regular server-commands and any [`Get5 configuration parameter`](configuration.md),
    i.e. `{"hostname": "Match #3123 - Astralis vs. NaVi"}`.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
23. _Optional_<br>Similarly to `players`, this object maps [coaches](coaching.md) using their Steam ID and
    name, locking them to the coach slot unless removed using [`get5_removeplayer`](../commands/#get5_removeplayer).
    Setting a Steam ID as coach takes precedence over being set as a player.<br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
24. _Required_<br>The players on the team.
25. _Optional_<br>Wrapper of the server's `mp_teammatchstat_txt` cvar, but can use `{MAPNUMBER}` and `{MAXMAPS}` as
    variables that get replaced with their integer values. In a BoX series, you probably don't want to set this since
    Get5 automatically sets `mp_teamscore` cvars for the current series score, and take the place of
    the `mp_teammatchstat` cvars.<br><br>**`Default: "Map {MAPNUMBER} of {MAXMAPS}"`**
26. _Optional_<br>The current score in the series, this can be used to give a team a map advantage or used as a manual
    backup method.<br><br>**`Default: 0`**
27. _Optional_<br>Wraps `mp_teammatchstat_1` and `mp_teammatchstat_2`. You probably don't want to set this, in BoX
    series, `mp_teamscore` cvars are automatically set and take the place of the `mp_teammatchstat_x`
    cvars.<br><br>**`Default: ""`**
28. Match teams can also be loaded from a separate file, allowing you to easily re-use a match configuration for
    different sets of teams. A `fromfile` value could be `"addons/sourcemod/configs/get5/team_nip.json"`, and is always
    relative to the `csgo` directory. The file should contain a valid `Get5MatchTeam` object. Note that the file you
    point to must be in the same format as the main file, so pointing to a `.cfg` file when the main file is `.json`
    will **not** work.
29. _Optional_<br>The name of the spectator team.<br><br>**`Default: "casters"`**
30. _Optional_<br>The spectator/caster Steam IDs and names. Setting a Steam ID as spectator takes precedence over being
    set as a player or coach.
31. _Optional_<br>Determines the starting sides for each map. If this array is shorter than `num_maps`, `side_type` will
    determine the side-behavior of the remaining maps. Ignored if `skip_veto` is `false`.
    <br><br>**`Default: undefined`**
32. _Optional_<br>If `false`, the entire map list will be played, regardless of score. If `true`, a series will be won
    when the series score for a team exceeds the number of maps divided by two.<br><br>**`Default: true`**

!!! info "Team assignment priority"

    If you define a Steam ID in more than one location in your match configuration, it will be evaluated in this order
    to determine where to put the player:

    1. Spectator
    2. Coach for `team1`
    3. Coach for `team2`
    4. Player for `team1`
    5. Player for `team2`

    If a player's Steam ID was not found in any of these locations, they will be
    [removed from the server](../configuration/#get5_check_auths) unless you are
    in [scrim mode](../getting_started/#scrims).

## Examples {: #example }

These examples are identical in the way they would work if loaded.

=== "JSON (recommended)"

    !!! tip "Example only"
        
        `map_sides` would only work with `skip_veto: true`.

    ```json title="addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.json"
    {
      "match_title": "Astralis vs. NaVi",
      "matchid": "3123",
      "clinch_series": true,
      "num_maps": 3,
      "players_per_team": 5,
      "coaches_per_team": 2,
      "min_players_to_ready": 2,
      "min_spectators_to_ready": 0,
      "skip_veto": false,
      "veto_first": "team1",
      "side_type": "standard",
      "spectators": {
        "name": "Blast PRO 2021",
        "players": {
          "76561197987511774": "Anders Blume"
        }
      },
      "maplist": [
        "de_dust2",
        "de_nuke",
        "de_inferno",
        "de_mirage",
        "de_vertigo",
        "de_ancient",
        "de_overpass"
      ],
      "map_sides": [
        "team1_ct",
        "team2_ct",
        "knife"
      ],
      "team1": {
        "fromfile": "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
      },
      "team2": {
        "name": "Astralis",
        "tag": "Astralis",
        "flag": "DK",
        "logo": "astr",
        "players": {
          "76561197990682262": "Xyp9x",
          "76561198010511021": "gla1ve",
          "76561197979669175": "K0nfig",
          "76561198028458803": "BlameF",
          "76561198024248129": "farlig"
        },
        "coaches": {
          "76561197987144812": "Trace"
        }
      },
      "cvars": {
        "hostname": "Get5 Match #3123",
        "mp_friendly_fire": "0",
        "get5_end_match_on_empty_server": "0",
        "get5_stop_command_enabled": "0",
        "sm_practicemode_can_be_started": "0"
      }
    }
    ```
    `fromfile` example:
    ```json title="addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
    {
      "name": "Natus Vincere",
      "tag": "NaVi",
      "flag": "UA",
      "logo": "navi",
      "players": {
        "76561198034202275": "s1mple",
        "76561198044045107": "electronic",
        "76561198246607476": "b1t",
        "76561198121220486": "Perfecto",
        "76561198040577200": "sdy"
      },
      "coaches": {
        "76561198013523865": "B1ad3"
      }
    }
    ```

    And in TypeScript, using the above interface definition file:
    ```typescript title="Typescript JSON example with Node.js"
    const match_schema: Get5Match = {
        "match_title": "Astralis vs. NaVi",
        "matchid": "3123",
        "clinch_series": true,
        "num_maps": 3,
        "players_per_team": 5,
        "coaches_per_team": 2,
        "min_players_to_ready": 2,
        "min_spectators_to_ready": 0,
        "skip_veto": false,
        "veto_first": "team1",
        "side_type": "standard",
        "spectators": {
            "name": "Blast PRO 2021",
            "players": {
                "76561197987511774": "Anders Blume"
            }
        },
        "maplist": ["de_dust2", "de_nuke", "de_inferno", "de_mirage", "de_vertigo", "de_ancient", "de_overpass"],
        "map_sides": ["team1_ct", "team2_ct", "knife"], // Example; would only work with "skip_veto": true
        "team1": {
            "fromfile": "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.json"
        },
        "team2": {
            "name": "Astralis",
            "tag": "Astralis",
            "flag": "DK",
            "logo": "astr",
            "players": {
                "76561197990682262": "Xyp9x",
                "76561198010511021": "gla1ve",
                "76561197979669175": "K0nfig",
                "76561198028458803": "BlameF",
                "76561198024248129": "farlig"
            },
            "coaches": {
                "76561197987144812": "Trace"
            }
        },
        "cvars": {
            "hostname": "Get5 Match #3123",
            "mp_friendly_fire": "0",
            "get5_end_match_on_empty_server": "0",
            "get5_stop_command_enabled": "0",
            "sm_practicemode_can_be_started": "0"
        }
    }
    
    // And the config file could be placed on the server like this:
    const json = JSON.stringify(match_schema);
    fs.writeFileSync('addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.json', json);
    ```

=== "KeyValue"

    !!! warning "All strings, no brakes"

        Note that `false` does not exist in the KeyValue format and that all numerical values are wrapped in quotes. The
        empty strings as values in dictionaries (`maplist` and `map_sides`) are also required.
    
    ```cfg title="addons/sourcemod/get5/astralis_vs_navi_3123.cfg"
    "Match"
    {
    	"match_title"               "Astralis vs. NaVi"
    	"matchid"		            "3123"
        "clinch_series"             "1"
    	"num_maps"		            "3"
    	"players_per_team"          "5"
    	"coaches_per_team"          "2"
    	"min_players_to_ready"      "2"
    	"min_spectators_to_ready"   "0"
    	"skip_veto"		            "0"
    	"veto_first"	            "team1"
        "side_type"		            "standard"
    	"spectators"    
    	{
    	    "name" "Blast PRO 2021"
    		"players"
    		{
    			"76561197987511774"	"Anders Blume"
    		}
    	}
    	"maplist"
    	{
    		"de_dust2"		""
    		"de_nuke"		""
    		"de_inferno"	""
    		"de_mirage"		""
    		"de_vertigo"	""
    		"de_ancient"	""
    		"de_overpass"	""
    	}
    	"map_sides"  // Example; would only work with "skip_veto" "1"
    	{
    	    "team1_ct" ""
    	    "team2_ct" ""
    	    "knife"    ""
    	}
    	"team1"
    	{
            "fromfile"  "addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.cfg"
    	}
    	"team2"
    	{
    		"name"		"Astralis"
    		"tag"		"Astralis"
    		"flag"		"DK"
    		"logo"		"astr"
    		"players"
    		{
                "76561197990682262" "Xyp9x"
                "76561198010511021" "gla1ve"
                "76561197979669175" "K0nfig"
                "76561198028458803" "BlameF"
                "76561198024248129" "farlig"
    		}
    		"coaches"
    		{
                "76561197987144812" "Trace"
            }
    	}
    	"cvars"
    	{
            "hostname"                       "Get5 Match #3123"
            "mp_friendly_fire"               "0"
            "get5_end_match_on_empty_server" "0"
            "get5_stop_command_enabled"      "0"
            "sm_practicemode_can_be_started" "0"
    	}
    }
    ```
    `fromfile` example:
    ```cfg title="addons/sourcemod/get5/team_navi.cfg"
    { 
        "name"		"Natus Vincere"
    	"tag"		"NaVi"
    	"flag"		"UA"
    	"logo"		"navi"
    	"players"
    	{
            "76561198034202275" "s1mple"
            "76561198044045107" "electronic"
            "76561198246607476" "b1t"
            "76561198121220486" "Perfecto"
            "76561198040577200" "sdy"
    	}
    	"coaches"
    	{
            "76561198013523865" "B1ad3"
        }
    }
    ```
